<p>Collin Fox</p>
<p>Prof. Annexstein</p>
<p>Senior Design 5001</p>
<p>15 September 2019</p>
<p align="center"><b>Capstone Project Assessment</b></p>

<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Measuring, storing, analyzing, and displaying the amount of rainfall experienced by the University of Cincinnati, our group will utilize many different types of technology. The rainfall data we collect has the potential to prevent fatal disasters by allowing construction and architecture crews to estimate the amount of time various structures will be safe to use by the public. The amount of erosion experienced by various structures can be estimated by having the user denote the type of material (and optionally the size and force exerted on it, to make these estimations more accurate.) This data provided by the user, combined with our rainfall data and calculations, will provide these time estimations. The amount of rainfall experienced by the larger Cincinnati area differs from the amount of rainfall experienced by the University of Cincinnati. We will reduce the scope to the UC campus area to provide more accurate and less general data.</p>

<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The current Computer Science curriculum at the University of Cincinnati has provided both technical and non-technical skills that will be utilized in this project. Engineering Foundations (ENED 1020) improved my ability to capture data through the exposure to ultrasonic sensors, force meters, and current/voltage meters. Made easier from the knowledge gained from this course, our group will be using ultrasonic sensors to determine the amount of rain that has fallen. Engineering Models I (ENED 1090) and II (ENED 1091) taught both technical and non-technical practices to display data in an adequately verbose manner, particularly through the use of MATLAB and data plotting functions. I learned how to keep the user in mind when analyzing and displaying data, by considering if the average person would be able to understand the data when viewing it. This knowledge also assisted me in my Intelligent Data Analysis course (CS 5152) where I was able to apply similar data analyzation and plotting strategies in Python, a programming language our group will be using to analyze the rainfall data we collect.</p>

<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The experience gained while working for my co-op employer, International Technegroup, Inc., provided many technical and non-techincal skills that will be helpful for this project. While working at ITI I became very familiar with SQL, a database scripting language we use to store any information our software (CAD system part file converter) might want to display or use later. Our group will likely be using either a MySQL, Oracle, or Microsoft SQL Server database to store our rainfall data. I became very familiar with these three database vendors as every change that was tested for one database type needed to be implemented and tested in the other two database types. I used Java and Javascript to create various reports that can be accessed in the "Reports" section of our software. These reports include graphs, tables, and charts that display data ranging from user activity/account status, to MBs of data transmitted, to dates and times different files were converted/used by our software. Not only will my acquired Java and Javascript experience help our group display data collected for our project, I also improved my Python skills drastically at ITI. I would regularly code Python scripts ranging from text file information extraction, to reading data from excel spreadsheets, to modifying files programmatically, to performing calculations. This knowledge will help our group analyze data in the backend, using Python. Many non-technical skills were improved while at ITI, such as my time management skills, and my understanding of how files can be dependent of each other and that one should always consider how code changes could affect other files. I improved my communication skills immensely as some bugs require constant interaction with co-workers who either know about the subject at hand, or have access to the material in question. My increased communication and time management skills will ensure our group is always on the same page and work as time-efficient as possible.</p>

<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Our group is excited to help architecture and construction crews improve and ensure the safety of the structures they create. By calculating the amount of rainfall experienced by UC, we will be able to estimate the amount of erosion experienced by various structures on campus. Our preliminary approach to this project involves the use of a ultrasonic sensor and a beaker. As rainfall fills the beaker, this data will be captured by the ultrasonic sensor, which will make use of an Arduino board and Wi-fi modules to transmit the data to our computers. From there, we will use a MySQL, Oracle, or Microsoft SQL Server database to store the amount of rainfall every 5 minutes. If there is more rainfall than normal, the amount of rainfall will be calculated every minute instead of every 5. If there is no change in rainfall, there will not be an entry for this time period in our database tables. Once we have the rainfall data stored in our database, we will use Python and Java to extract the information from the database. After successfully extracting this data, we will use Python to perform calculations such as: average rainfall over a user-provided time period, alerts when extreme rainfall occurs, and possibly alerts when structures may be close to failing due to erosion. Once these calculations are made, we will use Java, Javascript, HTML, and CSS to display the data in a webpage in different ways (e.g. graphs, charts, etc.)</p>

<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We expect to calculate rainfall experienced by UC more accurately than the current rainfall calculations which cover the entire region of Cincinnati. Our group additionally expects the ultrasonic sensors and code to provide accurate rainfall measurements to users, either via a webpage, mobile app, or both. Our project should help architecture and construction crews maintain structural integrity by keeping erosion in mind when designing structures. It will also help these crews estimate the timeframe these structures will be safe to use. Our group will be satisfied with our efforts once we are able to effectively display rainfall data, provide erosion level estimates, and provide rainfall and safety alerts to users. The data we collect should be helpful enough that it can be used by real-world construction and architecture crews that work on structures at the University of Cincinnati.</p>

